Group Charter: Commit Issues
Meetings: 
  In-Person Times:
    * (Lab Time) Tuesdays / 2:30 PM - 4:20 PM / q7day
    * (Collab Window) Friday / 5:30 PM - 6:10 PM / q2week
  Virtual Times:
    * Availability scheduled for any time after 5:00pm
    * (Collab Window) Saturday at 5:20pm / q7day

Warning: Unauthorized intrusions into a teammate's designated downtime are taken seriously and require a substantial justification. Violiation of a team members downtime must have a substantial justification along with sanction from the rest of the team. A case may be brought in front of the Scrum Master if escalation is necessary. Please respect your team members' time to themselves.

Group Contacts: Obaideh Alshammari (email or preferred contact: obaideh@uwm.edu), Julian Bartosz (email: jbartosz@uwm.edu),  Lord Elgin Raguero (email or preferred contact: lraguero@uwm.edu), Cainan Garison Squibb (email or preferred contact: cgsquibb@uwm.edu), Anthony Xavier Velez (email or preferred contact: axvelez@uwm.edu)


Goals:
1. To adhere well as a group, respecting each member, and supporting each member by working together to accomplish the goals listed below and adhering to this charter.
2. To gain a more intimate knowledge of the software life cycle by working as a group to develop a quality product worth an “A”. And make sure we are following scum guidelines. 
3. To attain practical knowledge and experience of what it means to be a software engineer and to familiarize ourselves with the methods and practices that are required to pull together a team project.

Group communication and interaction:
1. Regular communication:
Regular communication should occur every two days via email or another preferred channel, but once the channel is set it must be continuously used by that member unless technical issues arise. This communication should include a simple update on ones progress of their portion of the project. When a member finishes their portion of the project, they should attach their finished product in an email to all group members. If it cannot be attached to the email, the member shall explain a way to view the finished product. If a member forgets to post progress, any member can send an inquiry email or direct message to the person who forgot. If the email or message is not responded to in 24 hours on a weekday or within 36 hours since their last correspondence before a weekend, the group will begin to take on that member's responsibilities through the decision making process stated in part six of this section. If the member has a good reason for not responding, it will be taken into consideration as to whether there will be disciplinary action; otherwise it will be an immediate minor offense. If however, the member responds within the 24 hour time period stating they forgot, no disciplinary action will be taken. (To restate, a member has one full day or a 24 hour cycle since their last correspondence on a weekday to respond to a message. For example, if a member sent their last message to a team member on Tuesday at 5:38pm and ceases communication until Wednesday 5:38pm, actions may take place to discipline the member. If a members last correspondence was on Friday 5:38pm, actions to discipline the member for their lack of response cannot be taken until Sunday 5:38am.) If a member is having problems with their portion of the work, they should let the rest of the group knew immediately so they can received any needed help as soon as possible.
2. Group communication on tardiness/missed meetings and meeting information:
If a member has prior knowledge of a missed meeting or tardiness of a day or more, that member shall send an email/message to all group members signifying such. If it is the day of the meeting and a group member is going to miss the meeting or knows they are going to be tardy by more than five minutes, that member shall send a text message to all group members informing them of the situation. Failure to do so more than once will result in a minor offense.
3. Communication ethics:
There shall be an understanding among group members that all opinions or input by any individual member is valued and will be respected, even if disagreed with. People and/or their opinions shall not in any way be degraded or dismissed but all opinions shall have equal consideration. If a member feels his opinions are being rejected without good reason, he has a right to bring it up to the group leader and/or the group. The group will then discuss the situation and either reconsider their opinions, or make a case as to why the members opinions are not being used. If there is such a disagreement, the note taker or agenda maker will record the situation as well as the member who feels disregarded. If this situation happens more than three times the member has a right to go to the TA and state their case. If the problem is not solved by the TA, the opportunity is then open to state their case to Rock.
4. Decision making:
Any decisions which need to be made about the project, project direction or disciplinary action will be made by a majority vote. Any decisions about delegation will be covered in part six.
5. Group decisions on delegation:
The delegation of responsibilities to group members will be decided in the following fashion. The responsibilities will be discussed and decided on as a group decision. Then each group member has the opportunity to volunteer for the task he may want. If a group member does not volunteer for a task, they will be assigned one by the Scrum Master. If a group member feels the portion of responsibility is unfair, they may voice their concern and state a reason why. If a majority of the group feels this member is correct, the responsibilities will be reformed and the delegation process will start again.

Ground Rules:
Meetings:
1. Length of meetings:
Meetings may have to take as long as it takes, however meetings longer than 1 ½ hours are discouraged. The purpose of meetings is to establish communication and give direction to the project. Meetings once a week should be enough unless it is decided by the group that additional meetings should be scheduled. This communication should take place Through Discord virtually. It is understood that if a meeting takes too long, members may have to leave for classes or work obligations. This type of situation will not constitute and offense.
2. Missing a meeting:
An occasional missing of a meeting can be accepted. If however an individual repeatedly misses a meeting without good cause, some disciplinary action may have to be taken. Acceptable justification of a missed meeting includes, but is not limited to: injury, illness, family emergency, work or conflicting class schedule. If a meeting is missed for any other reason, the affected group members will decide as to whether the reason for missing the meeting is acceptable or in need of disciplinary action. Two meetings missed without emailed /Discord message valid excuse will result in a minor offence. Three will result in a major offence.
3. Tardiness to meetings:
A person being obviously late for a meeting and not fitting the structure of "on time‟ shall be given over to disciplinary action as described in minor offence. On time means the time the meeting is scheduled to start (5:00pm on Saturday). If an individual arrives at a meeting after the start time and the meeting has yet to get into purposeful conversation then it may be overlooked. However if there is no good excuse for being late and the meeting is clearly underway when the individual arrives then at the end of the meeting it will be discussed as to whether disciplinary action will have to be taken. Being late to a meeting more than once constitutes a minor offence. Records of being late will be recorded by group note taker.
4. Phone use during meetings:
As we only have an hour each week to meet, it should not be too much to ask that outside phone calls should be prohibited unless they are perceived to be an emergency. The taking of phone calls will come into question if they are taken often during meetings and the offender will be politely asked to discontinue. If the behavior continues, it will be discussed among the group as to whether it should be a minor offense. Checking a text message will be allowed as well as sending an occasional text to let someone know you are in a meeting and will get back to them. However social texting will not be allowed and the offender will again be politely asked to stop. If the behavior continues it will be discussed among the group as to whether it should be a minor offence.
5. Food and drink during meetings:
There is no limit to what food can be consumed during meetings as long as the facility we are meeting in allows it and people clean up after themselves. If an individual‟s food consumption is disruptive during a meeting, they will be politely asked to be less disruptive. If it continues, their food may be confiscated. They will have a new chance at the next meeting. If disruptive eating continues week after week, food may be banned at meetings via a majority decision by the group. If a member does not clean up after themselves there will be a warning. After the first warning it will constitute a minor offense.

Group participation and work quality:
1. Group participation:
If a group member isn‟t participating or is over participating it will be the Yoda‟s responsibility to politely ask the member to share either more or less based on the situation. If some is asked to share what they think or is asked to give others a chance to share, but they do not, and their under or over sharing is blocking the flow of the meeting, then by group decision it may be considered a minor offense.
2. Work not up to standard:
Group standards, regarding quality and timeliness of work, are important to uphold if we aim to succeed as a group. With goal 2 in mind we should always be putting forth the effort necessary to submit our best work. However, if there is a problem it should be handled in the following manner. It is understandable that at some point in this project someone may not be able to put in the time or effort necessary to meet group standards. If that should happen he must notify the group as soon as possible so the task can be redistributed, using the system established in group decisions and delegation, and the group can continue functioning at its highest level. If he continues to repeat this behavior it may result in a minor or major offence depending on the severity. In any case a minor offence must be given to the individual, for this action, before a major offence can be. At some point the group may seize to offer work to him as he is untrustworthy at that point. However, a group member may be able to redeem himself. If said member continues to perform above expectations for at least two weeks he shall be returned to full member status by way of this clause.
3. Group members unprepared:
It is understood that people are busy with other classes and school work. If by group consciousness it is obvious that a member is unprepared for a meeting, and their unpreparedness creates a hindrance to the group and project, then disciplinary action will have to take place. Unpreparedness of this form will immediately result in a warning then a minor offence hereafter.
4. Workload too heavy:
If with the time restraints and number of group members actively participating is not sufficient enough to complete the task, a plea of mercy will be sent to the Rock via email and in person which logs the details of the amount of work to be done, the status of how far we are, and why we can‟t complete it in that time period.

Work Norms:
1. Time commitment required by each group member:
Time commitment is a difficult thing to determine seeing one member may be able to complete the same job in a less amount of time. The goal is to complete the job. If one member is taking a substantial amount of time more than the others, it will be examined by the group as to whether his work load should be decreased.
2. Dealing with different work habits:
The work habits of any particular member will not be an issue as long as the member communicates progress, produces quality work, and the work is done by the dates established by the group. If the member does not meet these standards, procedures to deal with that member are further detailed in the ground rules.
3. Definition of done:
We will consider a task done when the taks/ code is reviewed and inspected by another team member. Once reviewed by the team member, task/code will then be approved and sent to the main branch. Once it has been added to the main branch the task is considered done. 

Disciplinary Procedures:
1. Regarding disciplinary actions:
Any disciplinary action to be administered can be overridden by group conscience, if decided by a majority vote.
2. Disciplinary Log:
The note taker will be responsible for logging any information on offenses committed by any member. This report will be sent out with the meeting notes every week so each member knows where they stand.  Cainan Squibb will keep track of the disciplinary log.
3. Minor Group Offence:
A minor group offence can occur for breaking indicated statutes of the charter. After the first minor offense the offending member will be required to make contact with the other group members within 24 hours.  After contact is made, there will be a discussion with the offender and the other group members to decide what the offending member should do to make up for their offense.  If contact is not made within the alloted 24 hours after an offense then the member will be given an additional minor offence and will incur a fair punishment of the group's choosing.  If after 2 minor offenses, the offending member is still not meeting their exepectations, the SCRUM Master (Tarun) will be contacted and he and the other group members will decide what actions to take going further.  If a team member receives 3 minor offenses, they will have committed a major group offense.
4. Major Group Offence:
A major group offence can occur by breaking indicated statutes of the charter, or for accumulation of 3 or more minor offences. Major offences will result in contacting Professor Rock and allowing him to decide what action should be taken going further.  If the offending member is still in the group after contacting Professor Rock, they will receive a punishment that is to the caliber of 3 or more minor offenses.
5. Punishment and Dismissal:
A group member committing enough minor and major offences will be referred to punishment and dismissal and will be given over to review by the TA and governing bodies (the Rock). An email describing the offences leading up to punishment and dismissal will be displayed along with testimonies from at least 2 other group members and a log of offenses. If available, the offending members work will be confiscated and termed as “belonging to the group”.

We, the team named Commit Issues agree with the Group Charter and will try our best to uphold it.
Name  Julian Bartosz              Date Tue Apr 2, 2024
Name  Obaideh Alshammari          Date Tue Apr 2, 2024
Name  Lord Elgin Raguero          Date Tue Apr 2, 2024
Name  Cainan Garison Squibb       Date Tue Apr 2, 2024
Name  Anthony Xavier Velez        Date Tue Apr 2, 2024
